.\" Copyright (C) 2006 - 2008 Tresys Technology, LLC
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU Lesser General Public License
.TH "SIPC_OPEN" 3 "2006-08-10" "Linux 2.6" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sipc_open \- Allocate and initialize a secure IPC handle
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0
#include <sipc/sipc.h>
.HP 20
sipc_t\ *\fBsipc_open\fR(char\ \fI*key\fR, int\ \fImode\fR, int\ \fIipc_type\fR, size_t\ \fIsize\fR);
.ad
.hy
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBsipc_open\fR() function allocates and initializes an IPC handle,
allowing it to be used in secure communications.
A call to \fBsipc_open\fR() must be made before calling any of the other
SIPC functions.
The returned IPC handle should be deallocated via a call to
\fBsipc_close\fR() when it is no longer needed.
.PP
The function parameters are as follows:
.TP
.I key
A string which serves as an identifier for this IPC resource.
.TP
.I mode
One of SIPC_CREATOR, SIPC_SENDER or SIPC_RECEIVER, depending on
the role that the invoking process is performing.
The SIPC_CREATOR mode, which causes the actual IPC resource to be created,
should only be used by helper applications not actually participating in
the communications process.
The \fBsipc_unlink\fR() function should be called by a helper
application to remove the underlying IPC resource.
.TP
.I ipc_type
The type of IPC to be used for communications, one of SIPC_SYSV_MQUEUES
or SIPC_SYSV_SHM.
.TP
.I size
Size, in bytes, to allocate for the IPC handle's data member.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns a pointer to the new IPC handle on success, NULL on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsipc_close(3)\fR, \fBsipc_unlink(3)\fR, \fBsipc_ioctl(3)\fR
.SH AUTHOR
David Windsor <dwindsor@tresys.com>
